In last video we create the card component and made the cards clickable.
Now that set up the game reset the nav bar
inside the nav bar will add a function called on new games so that the prop types
and have actually already got it here.
So I'm going to get on a new game out of props so the structure here and then I'll use it as a click
event inside the link.
Great that's it for the nav bar.
Now we need to create the function inside of the memory game and pass it in
so let's call this function handle new game
in this function we want to do two things we want to copy the state and set all the cards to have a
state of hiding and then we want to shuffle the cards and then set that as our new state.
So let's do that.
So in this map I'm destructuring each card and then setting the card state for each one to be hiding
next time shuffling the card so we have a new arrangement of cards.
And finally we're setting state so I'd see that working.
I forgot one thing we need to pass it into the nav bar component.
Now see that working.
The colors are changing and our Reset seems to be working so it looks like that's all good.
Now the only thing left is to update the handle click function so that it has the correct logic for
the game.
If two cards are visible and they don't match they should be flipped back.
But if two cards are visible and they do match they should stay
so start by getting rid of this code.
The first thing I'm going to do in this function is actually define another function and I'm going to
call it map card state.
It's going to take three parameters the array of cards an array of IDs to change.
And lastly what state those IDs should have.
So it'll go through the array map each element.
And if the element matches the ID that we're looking for then we'll change the card state.
There we go this is our map card state function.
As I said it takes our array of cards.
The idea is that we want to change in the state that we want to change into.
It will map over the card and if the ID that we're on matches any of the IDs to change then we will
update that card with the new card state.
Next we'll grab the card that we want out of the array.
So that's the card that was just clicked on.
Next we're checking if the card we just found if it's state is not equal to hiding then we don't want
to do anything right if the cards are already showing we don't want to turn into a hiding card.
So if that's the case just return.
Also we have a piece of state called no click so if no click is ever true.
Then we also don't want to do anything.
We'll see that in just a second or we're going to use it for
next will set a variable called no click and we'll start out as false
and we're going to use this to decide if the user can click again or not.
So if there are zero non-match showing or one non-match showing then the user can click right.
There are two non-match is showing then the user can't click for a certain amount of time.
Next we're going to use the map card state function that we created above and map the card that was
clicked on to be showing because we know the card state has to be hiding at this point.
Now I want to filter that to only get showing cards back.
Now let's just get the idea of those showing cards.
Now we have an array of cards that are currently showing and we have those cards IDs and I supposed
that from
now we need to decide a couple of different cases.
So first of all we want to check if there are two cards showing and if there background colors match
so this is the case when we do change the state of both these cards to Matching.
Otherwise there are two cards showing and they do not match at this point.
So then we need to hide them or hide them after they've been shown for a little bit of time.
So first I'm changing the card state of the showing IDs to hiding.
So these ideas were the two that are showing.
And now I want to make those IDs two hiding cards.
Next I'm going to change the no click variable from false to true.
And then I want to set state with the cards and no click.
Now you'll notice I use cards here not hiding cards.
So I'm going to keep the card showing for a certain amount of time.
And then after a set time out I will hide them.
So we need a callback function for after the set state is done.
And inside of that callback function after a set time out we're going to change the card states from
showing to hiding.
So you can see here we've set the state to have two cards showing.
And then after one point three seconds we have two cards hiding or we had the whole hiding array which
includes those two cards that we've now hidden and we've changed the no click from true to false.
So while those two cards are showing you can't click anywhere else.
And then afterwards after the 1.3 second delay they are hidden.
Let's change that three.
And if this is the case we just want to return we don't want to do anything else in this function.
Otherwise if you've gotten down to the bottom we'll do a set state with our cards and no click
so reach the set stay in only two cases.
1 if there's only one card showing that's not matched or the other case would be there's two cards showing
that now do match if there are two cards showing that do not match will be inside of this statement
and will hit the return and stop here.
So let's check out our app now and see if it works.
As you'll notice the matches stay and if I get two things that don't match I can't click a third time.
So
there we go.
That looks good.
So that's our application.
Good job so far.
Keep up the good work.
Next we're going to be doing component lifecycle methods.